This project represents an interactive graphics program that performs kth-order polynomial approximation and creates porcupines for each approximated polynomial. It also interpolates the given points using both the parametric Lagrange Polynomial Method and Improved Parabolic Blending Method using OpenGl in C programming language.
First, the number of points (N_max) is asked from the user by inserting it from the console. The number of points gives us the order of the polynomial (M). 1 less than this value is the degree of our polynomial. Then, the user will be able to draw the points on the given screen using the mouse.

This program asks the user to insert the number of points from the console and to draw points by left-clicking the mouse and drawing the selected polynomial curve and porcupine curves from these points. An interactive graphics program that performs kth order polynomial approximation and creates porcupines for each approximated polynomial is done here. It also interpolates the given points using both the parametric Lagrange Polynomial Method and Improved Parabolic Blending Method. To do this program C language is used on an Eclipse platform with OpenGl graphics tool. The program draws “Lagrange polynomial”, “Parabolic Blending”, “Parametric Lagrange Interpolation” and “Approximation” curves for the corresponding points by clicking the corresponding buttons. The user draws parametric porcupines and explicit porcupines by clicking the corresponding buttons for the corresponding curves. Users can erase the corresponding porcupines drawn on the curve without erasing the curve. To draw a new curve, the older curve must be erased by clicking the “erase” button under the curve button. “Polynomial degree” is displayed within the right bottom corner menu. The user can change the degree of the polynomial for Approximation by clicking the degree choices from the pop-up menu. The program can get a screenshot output in the TGA format by clicking and pressing the F12 key. Users can clear the screen using the "clear screen" button from the pop-up menu and can exit by clicking the “Quit” button.



Intro:
An interactive graphics program that performs kth-order polynomial approximation and creates porcupines for each approximated polynomial.
